# Data description

## Case data 
Stored in the ```case_data/``` folder.
This contains a csv file with the time series of COVID-19 cases in Washington state.

## Contact data 
Stored in the ```contact_data/``` folder.

In this analysis, we used synthetic contact data generated by [Mistry et al](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-020-20544-y) for Washington state (WA), USA. 
These data were downloaded from the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/mobs-lab/mixing-patterns) associated with their manuscript.
To estimate the number of contacts occurring between age groups (in decades) of the populations, we needed:
- the overall contact matrix ([United_States_subnational_Washington_M_overall_contact_matrix_85.csv](https://github.com/blab/phylo-kernel-public/blob/main/data/contact_data/United_States_subnational_Washington_M_overall_contact_matrix_85.csv))
- the age distribution of the WA population ([United_States_subnational_Washington_age_distribution_85.csv](https://github.com/blab/phylo-kernel-public/blob/main/data/contact_data/United_States_subnational_Washington_age_distribution_85.csv))


## Mobility data 
Stored in the ```mobility/``` folder.

### Mobile phone derived mobility data
We used mobile phone derived mobility data from the *SafeGraph* company.
We provide an aggregated version of the dataset with number of visits between counties, which we used to estimate the RR of movement between counties from cellphone mobility data.

### Commuting data
We used publicly available WA specific workflow data describing the total number of individuals living in a county X that work in county Y ([commuting_flows_WA_2020.csv](https://github.com/blab/phylo-kernel-public/blob/main/data/mobility/commuting_flows_WA_2020.csv)).

## Synthetic data 
Stored in the ```synthetic_data/``` folder. 
The folder contains a synthetic alignment and a synethetic metadata file that are used to illustrate how to compute the RR of identical sequences from a user-defined dataset.

## Mapping data 
Stored in the ```maps/``` folder.
The folder contains shapefiles used the reproduce the figures and demographic characteristics of counties and postal codes that are used throughout the different analyses.

